The 5 most frequently asked questions
What does Green Powered cost?
Green Powered is paid for in addition to your regular electricity bill and does not replace your electricity service.

Green Powered 100%: $0.05 per kilowatt-hour you use (price changes on January 2025 billing cycles; previous price in 2024 was $0.038)

Green Powered 25%: $0.022 per kilowatt-hour you use.

Green Powered Subscription: Subscription options & pricing are here.

Community Choice Electricity: Varies by community. Check their website.
 
How do I get my tax receipt?
Green Energy Consumers is a non-profit organization, and your payments to Green Powered or to a 50% or 100% green option in a Community Choice Electricity program we serve are recognized as being made for the public good. They are considered a tax-deductible charitable contribution for federal income tax purposes, if you itemize on your federal return. Tax receipts for 2024 will be available by January 31, 2025. Tax receipts for 2023 & previous years are available. 

Green Powered members can download your tax receipt by logging in to our My Account site and clicking on "Donations." We also send tax receipts out by mail or email by January 31st each year.

Community Choice Electricity / Green Municipal Aggregation members can request their receipt here.
 
What are Class I or "new" RECs and why do we buy them?
Renewable Energy Certificate (REC) represents one Megawatt hour of electricity produced by renewable sources. It can be sold separately from the actual electrons, making them an additional funding stream for renewable energy. “Class 1” or "new" RECs come from specific types of renewable energy generators built in New England since 1997.By law, through the MA Renewable Portfolio Standard and RI Renewable Energy Standard, major utilities have to source an increasing percentage of their electric load from Class 1 or new projects each year, Utilities can’t buy the RECs that Green Powered members buy to fulfill their mandate, which creates greater demand and makes more projects get built.
 
What is the difference between community solar and Green Powered?
There’s a big difference, and it’s green electricity. Community solar is a good way for you to get the savings on your electricity that are associated with owning solar – without doing the installation on your own roof. However, community solar projects do not provide you with solar power. If you want green electricity, you must buy RECs as you do through Green Powered. 
You may be able to do both Green Powered and a community solar supplier, but it depends on the supplier. Check with the community solar supplier.
 
Can I enroll with a competitive electricity supplier and Green Powered at the same time?
Green Powered Subscription is available to anyone anywhere and is completely unrelated to your electric bill, so Yes! However, Green Powered 25% & 100% ("GreenUp" on your bill) via National Grid and Rhode Island Energy do not allow Green Powered to be utilized at the same time as a competitive supplier. We do not recommend competitive suppliers (except via Community Choice Electricity programs), because it has been proven that consumers lose money overall with competitive suppliers. And many competitive suppliers have been known to “greenwash”, which is to market a product claiming it’s adding more renewable energy to the electric grid, when in reality it is not. Green Powered has proven to help build new renewable energy sources. Stick with us!